Solyd Solutions
Design. Build. Share. Observe.

Solyd Solutions is a maker-driven hub for CNC files, CAD/CAM workflows, and laser/metal/woodworking plans that empower small-batch manufacturing, creative builders, and community makerspaces.
Solyd Solutions also integrates analytics, observability, and econometrics to measure performance, optimize production, and connect academic economic modeling with practical maker systems.
This repository houses the evolving foundation of both:

Digital IP for fabrication

Cloud-native tools for monitoring, observability, and analytics
Econometric models for forecasting, pricing, and business strategy


Mission

Our mission is simple:
To codify precision designs that can be shared, licensed, and manufactured across communities.
To bridge the gap between digital design, physical builds, and data insights.
To empower underserved communities with tools, training, and accessible systems.


What You Will Find Here

CNC Router and Laser Files
SVG, DXF, and toolpath-ready formats.
CAD/CAM Models
Parametric parts designed in SolidWorks, Fusion 360, and OpenSCAD.
Analytics and Observability
Google Cloud and Splunk observability projects, dashboards, and monitoring templates.
Data-driven optimization for CNC, laser, and upholstery workflows.
Econometrics
Reproducible regression models, simulations, and forecasting.
Bridges academic economics with practical maker data.
Supports grant writing, business planning, and product pricing strategies.
Documentation
Setup notes, material guidelines, and best practices for woodworking, upholstery, and small-batch manufacturing.
Brand Assets
Logos, splash pages, and other identity resources for Solyd Solutions.
Sister Brand: Groondlings
While Solyd Solutions focuses on digital design, analytics, and econometric frameworks, Groondlings is the physical product line — warm, playful, and consumer-facing. Together, they form a two-pillar system:
Solyd Solutions = the brains, blueprints, and data.
Groondlings = the hands and heart.


Why This Matters

This repository is part of a broader vision supported by efforts like the Makerspaces and Community Development Organizations showing not only product potential but also scalable, technical intellectual property that can:
Power makerspaces and entrepreneurs.
Provide observability frameworks for efficiency.
Support academic, community, and commercial growth.

Getting Started

Clone this repository.
Review the /docs folder for CNC and laser setup notes.
Explore /cad_cam and /gcode for design and toolpath files.
Check /analytics for observability and dashboard examples.
Review /econometrics for reproducible models and forecasting tools.
Watch this space — new designs and resources will be added regularly.


License
Content in this repository may be released under open or mixed licensing (to be finalized). Files marked with specific license headers must be followed as stated.
